# Stand up locally

### You'll need the following to run iridium locally:
* [Node 18](https://nodejs.org/en)
* [Java 17](https://adoptium.net/temurin/releases/)
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/)

Iridium is dependent on an RDBMS system such as [MySQL](https://www.mysql.com/) or [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/).

It should be noted that the set up in this document is not meant for production purposes.

### Serve Iridium from the repo

Clone the repo
```shell
$ git clone git@github.com:IridiumIdentity/iridium.git
```
`cd` into the project
```shell
$ cd iridium
```

Stand up mariadb, the latest version of the core iridium server
```shell
$ docker compose -f tools/schedulers/compose/local-dev-compose.yml up -d
```

At this point you have an instance of MariaDB.
You can verify this by executing `docker ps`, you should see similar output like below
```shell
 docker ps
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                                        COMMAND                  CREATED         STATUS         PORTS                                        NAMES
a44c37b6d4c1   mariadb:10.6.11                              "docker-entrypoint.s…"   6 seconds ago   Up 3 seconds   0.0.0.0:3306->3306/tcp                       mariadb
```
We still need to initialize the database with specific data for Iridium to function 


[Next, you should initialize the database](#initialize-the-iridium-database)

## Initialize the Iridium Database

Iridium needs specific data entities to exist for it to function. This guide demonstrates how to use the iridium CLI
to execute this task.  This document assumes you have downloaded and unpacked the binary distribution of Iridium in a
previous step as detail [here](1.Install-the-CLI.md).

To initialize the database execute the following command.  Again we are expecting you to be in the top level folder of
expanded tar.gz distribution you downloaded and unpacked earlier.

**NOTE**
Iridium init is meant to be non-destructive in that if you initialize the database once it will not work again.  You will need to bring your 
containers all the way down to run the `init` function again. 

2. [Initialize with a social provider](#initialize-with-iridium-with-the-github-login-provider)

## Initialize with Iridium with a Login Provider

Again we are expecting you to be in the top level folder of
expanded tar.gz distribution you downloaded and unpacked earlier. For ease of getting started lets focus on using only provider at the moment.
You'll need to set your GitHub Client credentials in the file below.  [Instructions on how to do this with GitHub are here.](../4.-connecting-social-identity-providers/create-github-application.md)  You can do this by executing. 
```shell
$ vim conf/external-providers.yaml
```
Modify the contents of the file to match below, you'll need to modify the values to be specific for your GitHub Oauth application.  You will want to remove the Google YAML block for this quick start. 
```yaml
- name: "github"
  clientId: "${yourClientId}"
  clientSecret: "${yourClientSecret"
```

### Initialize the database

Run the following command to initialize the database with the GitHub credentials, and other needed entities for Iridium to run.

```shell
$ ./bin/iridium init 
```
Upon successful initialization of the database you'll see similar output.  
```shell
06:22:59.884 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - ########################################
06:22:59.884 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - Database successfully initialized
06:22:59.884 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - ########################################
06:22:59.884 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - Iridium Management Application ID is localRunIdChangeForProduction
06:22:59.885 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - Be sure to place this in the appropriate environment.ts file
```
Since this is a local run, you will not need to update your `environment.ts` as stated above.

### Run the Iridium Core Server
Run the following command, again this is from the top level folder of the distribution you downloaded.
```
$  java -jar lib/iridium-core-server-0.2.0-SNAPSHOT.jar --spring.config.location=../conf/application.properties
```
[Follow the instructions to run Iridium from Intellij here](../3.-for-developers/developing-with-intellij.md).  To run the server you'll need to 
From here, you should be able to log in to the Iridium Management UI using your GitHub account. At this point you've
stood up the system with an Iridium tenant for and application for managing Iridium. At this point you can start to create your own tenant and applications
in Iridium to be secured.

## Stand up the Iridium Management UI

`cd` into the Angular project and install dependencies
```shell
$ cd iridium-angular-client && npm install
```

build the `ngx-iridium-client` and the management UI.
````shell
$ ng build ngx-iridium-client && ng serve
````

At this point you are ready to use Iridium to secure your system.  
You've stood up the  Iridium Core Server and the management UI.  

The next step is log in the management UI using either the local user you created (username/password) or the by using 
a social provider (such as GitHub) to access the system by visiting [http://localhost:4200](http://localhost:4200) in your browser.

From here, you can create tenants, associate social providers, single page applications or server apps in via the UI to be secured by Iridium.



 


