# Initialize the Iridium Database

Iridium needs specific data entities to exist for it to function. This guide demonstrates how to use the iridium CLI
to execute this task.  This document assumes you have downloaded and unpacked the binary distribution of Iridium in a
previous step as detail [here](1.Install-the-CLI.md).

To initialize the database execute the following command.  Again we are expecting you to be in the top level folder of 
expanded tar.gz distribution you downloaded and unpacked earlier.  

### Initialize with Iridium without

```shell
$ ./bin/iridium  init \
--host=localhost \
--port=3306 \
--user=root \
--password \
--admin-password \
--admin-email=you@somewhere.com
```

The CLI tool should prompt your for the database password.  Enter the password you configured upon standing up
the database.
```shell
$ Enter value for --password (the database password): 
```

Next, it will ask for your admin user password.  This is the password you will use along with the admin-email you passed
to login to the management UI
```shell
$ Enter value for --admin-password (the admin password):
```

Upon successful initialization of the database you'll see similar output 
```shell
06:22:59.884 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - ########################################
06:22:59.884 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - Database successfully initialized
06:22:59.884 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - ########################################
06:22:59.884 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - Iridium Management Application ID is ${someApplicationId}
06:22:59.885 [main] INFO  software.iridium.cli.command.InitCommand - Be sure to place this in the appropriate environment.ts file
```

### Initialize with Iridium with GitHub Login
If you want to allow users to log in to the Iridium Management app with their Github account you can allow this here 
following the directions below:

Again we are expecting you to be in the top level folder of
expanded tar.gz distribution you downloaded and unpacked earlier. In this example, we are passing the flag to allow users to register
with the Iridium tenant using GitHub by passing the flag `--allow-github=true`.


```shell
$ ./bin/iridium init \
--host=localhost \
--port=3306 \
--user=root \
--password \
--allow-github=true
```

The CLI tool should prompt your for the database password.  Enter the password you configured upon standing up
the database.
```shell
$ Enter value for --password (the database password): 
```

Next the CLI will prompt for a GitHub Oauth application credentials.  If you don't have a GitHub application ready to use,
you can [follow the directions here to create one](create-github-application.md)

Enter your Github OAuth application id
```shell
$ Enter value for github client id: my-client-id
```
Enter your Github OAuth application secret
```shell
$ Enter value for github client secret: my-client-secret
```

From here, you should be able to log in to the Iridium Management UI using your GitHub account. At this point you've 
stood up the system with an Iridium tenant for and application for managing Iridium. At this point you can start to create your own tenant and applications
in Iridium to be secured. 


Next the CLI will prompt for a GitHub Oauth application credentials.  If you don't have a GitHub application ready to use,
you can [follow the directions here to create one](create-github-application.md)

Enter your Github OAuth application id
```shell
$ Enter value for github client id: my-client-id
```
Enter your Github OAuth application secret
```shell
$ Enter value for github client secret: my-client-secret
```

